# Classic Arcade Game Clone Project

## Table of Contents

-   [Instructions](#instructions)
-   [Contributing](#contributing)

## Instructions

Use this [rubric](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/15/view) for self-checking your submission.

Make sure the functions you write are **object-oriented** - either class functions (like `Player` and `Enemy`) or class prototype functions such as `Enemy.prototype.checkCollisions`. Also make sure that the keyword `this` is used appropriately within your class and class prototype functions to refer to the object the function is called upon.

Your **README.md** file should be updated with instructions on both how to 1. Run and 2. Play your arcade game.

For detailed instructions on how to get started, check out this [guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v01aScPjSWCCWQLIpFqvg3-vXLH2e8_SZQKC8jNO0Dc/pub?embedded=true).

## Contributing

This repository is the starter code for _all_ Udacity students. Therefore, we most likely will not accept pull requests.

## I followed the below steps to develop this game

-   At first downloaded the skeleton project through the GitHub link which was provided by the UDACITY in rubric structure by using the link "<https://github.com/udacity/frontend-nanodegree-arcade-game">.
-   Extract the downloaded Zip file.
- open `index.html` file by using the browser. Some errors are found in `app.js` file by running the code.
-   After correcting those errors the canvas is displayed in the output.
-   After rectifying it, give the character as a `player` by using the image.
-   Implemented the below functions for Player:
-   render()
-   update() and
-   handleInput()
-   render() is used for placing a player sprite on the canvas. update() is used for updating the player position. This function is already implemented by using the dt parameter.
-   handleInput() is used to handle inputs which was given by the user.
-   The inputs are:
-   left arrow: It moves towards the left side on x-axis. This key is not working when the player reaches the left-most direction.
-   right arrow: It moves towards  the right direction on x-axis. The key is not working when the player reaches the right most position.
-   up arrow: move towards the up direction on y-axis.
-   down arrow: Move towards the downward direction on y-axis. This key is not working when the player reaches the down-most direction.
-   If the player wants to move left then click on left arrow, and if the player want to   move right then click on right arrow, if the player wants to move up click on up arrow
    and if he wants to move down click on down arrow.
-   If the player reaches the watermark then he gains five points.
     Once the player reaches the watermark at first time the character was changed from
     `char-pink-girl.png` to `char-horn-girl.png`.
-   The bugs are created like `Enemies` by using the image  `enemy-bug.png` and  by giving positions to  them and make them  to move.
-   Similarly , I implemented enemy activity. There are two functions for enemy:
-   render()
-   update()
-   render() is already given. I used an array for placing the enemies on the game board based upon the calculation.
-   similarly update() updates the enemy positions based on the speed that was generated by random function.
-   The score is initially 0 whenever the player reaches the watermark the score is incremented by five points.
-   I implemented two levels in this game.
-   The popup is displayed by using the sweetalert2, if the score is fifteen and it displays the message like `You completed the first level` and the background color is changed.
-   Again the popup is displayed if the score is thirty and displays the message like `You completed the second level` and the background color is changed.
-   Finally, I suggested the player try to reach the watermark without touching the bug.
